P1

Hi everyone we are group 13. Our topic is Towards Realistic Animating Human.
I'm Zhao Zhuoran.

P2

The outline of our presentation is as follows.

P3

Reconstructing 3D human avatars from image inputs has vast applications in virtual reality, gaming, and e-commerce.

P4

Some existing methods based on neural radiance fields (NeRFs)[1] often require days of training, and are extremely slow at inference time.

P5

Another method, recently proposed 3D Gaussian Splatting model[2], makes it possible to achieve state-of-the-art rendering quality using only a fraction of NeRFs’ inference time

P6

Recent works start exploring using 3D Gaussian Splatting model to realize realistic 3D human reconstruction this year[3-7], among which, 3D Gaussian Splatting Avatar is one of the SOTA works.

P7

However, there exists some limitation on this work. Firstly, the surface is rough, possibly because of unsmooth geometry. Secondly, some detail information is missing.

P8

Also, the lighting effect is unnatural. And the generalization in novel poses performs bad.

P9

Before introducing our proprosed method, I shall breifly introduce the 3DGS framework. 3D Gaussians are initialized on the canonical mesh surface. 
The Gaussians are transformed into Observation Space using non-rigid transformation and rigid transformation with the help of parametric model.
The transformed Observation Space features are then fed to Color MLP followed rasterization.

P10
We have tested multiple improvements, we will demonstrate some of them as below. 

To improve the rough surface and unsmooth geometry issue, we propose to correct pose, root translation and orientation using MLP. 
Since the SMPL estimation can be inaccurate, which misleads the rigid transformation and results into bad results,
 we propose to use residual MLP to make the paramters optimizable

P11

We also propose the framework with normal cues

We define a geomoetric normal for each Gaussian with rotation matrix under Special Orthogonal Group SO3

Then we can obtain the per-pixel normal by compositing the Guassian normals weighted by alphas

With the per-pixel normal, we calculate the loss at neighboring pixels as is shown in the formula

P12

To solve the unnatural lighting effect, we propose to the avg frame appearance embedding.

appearance embedding is used to specific lighting in each frame at training time.

We believe that unbiased lighting effect is better

So we propose to use the average encoding at inference time

P13

Next we will show you our current results

Quantatively, our result is comparable to the baseline.

P14

Qualitatively, our method can have a smoother surface and more plausible geometry, as can be seen on the shoulder part.

P15

Our method can better reconstruct details. As you can see, the 3 color label is present in our result.

P16

We can achieve more nature lighting effect. As you can see, our reconstructed arm have less dark artifects.

P17

Our investigation is still ongoing with more experiments needed.

We need to finetune our hyperparameter to achieve better Quantative results
Training Gaussian Splatting with MLP transformations is hard, we want to compare different training strategy
We find out that our method can converge faster, but the training strategy needs to be tuned.

We also find more potential improvements, for example, adding constraints between frames, and having different training strategy on different human body part.
